learn/start.md, before:

---
title: Start
backLink:
  url: "/learn"
  name: "Learn"
---

# Start Learning

If you're here, you probably want to learn OBL!  This page will tell you how to use the site.

## References
If you're already familiar with the basics and are just looking for references, use the below links.
- [Weighted OBL Tree](/assets/images/obl_data_sorted_by_weights_1110.pdf)
- [Faces List](faces)
- [Cases List](cases)
<!-- - [Cases Listed by Optimal Movecount](cases_by_optimal) -->
- [Other Resources](resources)

## Overview

In the same sense that we can say there are 4 "levels" of difficulty to cubeshape (beginner methods that either group all edges or group 6 corners; intermediate methods like kite/scallop; advanced full CS; and "expert" CSP), there are essentially four levels of OBL.  These are as follows:
- Beginner: regular old CO into EO
- Intermediate: all short OBLs and their pseudomirrors, mostly blockbuilding on any remaining cases
- Advanced: all 74 standard cases memorized
- Expert: all mirrors (L/R, U/D, color-swapped) memorized, intentionally choosing non-slice-optimal for some cases because of better recognition/ergonomics/etc.

## Beginner -> Intermediate

<!-- TODO if you don't, we should have a resource linked here -->
In this guide, we'll assume that you already know CO into EO.  So, congrats!  You already know the following 11 cases:
- CO covers 4 cases: [Tent / Tent](ltent_ltent); [Kite / Kite](lkite_lkite), the only 1-slicer; [Kite / Pinwheel](lkite_lpinwheel); [Pinwheel / Pinwheel](lpinwheel_lpinwheel).
- EO covers 6 cases: [1E / 1E](cases/1e_1e); [Eopp / Eopp, aka M2](cases/eopp_eopp); [Eopp / Eadj](cases/eopp_eadj); [Eadj / Eadj](cases/eadj_eadj); [3E / 3E](cases/3e_3e); [4E / 4E](cases/4e_4e).
- And then there's 1 0-slicer (the solved state).

Don't worry if you don't know what these mean yet, just know that you're already 14% of the way to "advanced".  Good job, you.  Your next step will be learning all of the 2- and 3-slice optimal cases.

There are only 5 2-slicers, and you actually already know three of them: [Tent / Tent](cases/ltent_ltent), [M2](cases/eopp_eopp), and [Pinwheel / Pinwheel](cases/lpinwheel_lpinwheel).  So really you only have to learn two new cases:
- [m2 (the corner version of M2)](cases/copp_copp); and
- [Dish / Dish](cases/ldish_ldish).
Click on the links to those cases to get started on learning them!

After this, you'll want to start on the 3-slicers.  
<!-- 
TODO
At this point we should probably stop and talk about some of the terminology we've been using.
-->
We're planning on writing a more in-depth guide, but for now just start on the 3-slicers.  Go to the [Cases page](cases) and click to sort by optimal movecount.  There will be some mirrors; you don't need to worry about those yet, just pick one and learn it.

## Intermediate -> Advanced

TODO

## Advanced -> Expert

TODO

Commit message:

Add some info on faces page to Learn

learn/start.md, after:

---
title: Start
backLink:
  url: "/learn"
  name: "Learn"
---

# Start Learning

If you're here, you probably want to learn OBL!  This page will tell you how to use the site.

## References
If you're already familiar with the basics and are just looking for references, use the below links.
- [Weighted OBL Tree](/assets/images/obl_data_sorted_by_weights_1110.pdf)
- [Faces List](faces)
- [Cases List](cases)
<!-- - [Cases Listed by Optimal Movecount](cases_by_optimal) -->
- [Other Resources](resources)

## Overview

In the same sense that we can say there are 4 "levels" of difficulty to cubeshape (beginner methods that either group all edges or group 6 corners; intermediate methods like kite/scallop; advanced full CS; and "expert" CSP), there are essentially four levels of OBL.  These are as follows:
- Beginner: regular old CO into EO
- Intermediate: all short OBLs and their pseudomirrors, mostly blockbuilding on any remaining cases
- Advanced: all 74 standard cases memorized
- Expert: all mirrors (L/R, U/D, color-swapped) memorized, intentionally choosing non-slice-optimal for some cases because of better recognition/ergonomics/etc.

## Beginner -> Intermediate

<!-- TODO if you don't, we should have a resource linked here -->
In this guide, we'll assume that you already know CO into EO.  So, congrats!  You already know the following 11 cases:
- CO covers 4 cases: [Tent / Tent](ltent_ltent); [Kite / Kite](lkite_lkite), the only 1-slicer; [Kite / Pinwheel](lkite_lpinwheel); [Pinwheel / Pinwheel](lpinwheel_lpinwheel).
- EO covers 6 cases: [1E / 1E](cases/1e_1e); [Eopp / Eopp, aka M2](cases/eopp_eopp); [Eopp / Eadj](cases/eopp_eadj); [Eadj / Eadj](cases/eadj_eadj); [3E / 3E](cases/3e_3e); [4E / 4E](cases/4e_4e).
- And then there's 1 0-slicer (the solved state).

Don't worry if you don't know what these mean yet, just know that you're already 14% of the way to "advanced".  Good job, you.  Your next step will be learning all of the 2- and 3-slice optimal cases.

There are only 5 2-slicers, and you actually already know three of them: [Tent / Tent](cases/ltent_ltent), [M2](cases/eopp_eopp), and [Pinwheel / Pinwheel](cases/lpinwheel_lpinwheel).  So really you only have to learn two new cases:
- [m2 (the corner version of M2)](cases/copp_copp); and
- [Dish / Dish](cases/ldish_ldish).
Click on the links to those cases to get started on learning them!  As you do, try clicking into some of the links on each case page.  In particular, click into the cases' face(s) page(s) to see more information on them, e.g. why we've named those faces the way we have.

<!-- TODO At this point we should probably stop and talk about some of the terminology we've been using. -->

After this, you'll want to start on the 3-slicers.  We're planning on writing a more in-depth guide, but for now just start on the 3-slicers.  Go to the [Cases page](cases) and click to sort by optimal movecount.  There will be some mirrors; you don't need to worry about those yet, just pick one and learn it.  
<!-- TODO more in-depth guide -->

While you're working on the 3-slicers is a good time to more thoroughly learn all the different faces.  You can do so by clicking the "Up" button on any individual face's page; through the navbar's dropdown, under "Learn"; or by going directly to the [Faces page](faces).  They're sortable by "E/C Type", which is just a count of edges and corners of a single color that have been swapped with the opposite face.  Only another face of the same E/C Type can be opposite it, so try sorting by that column as well.  Some of the individual faces pages also have recognition tips, especially the left/right ones, so check them out!

## Intermediate -> Advanced

<!-- TODO -->

TBD; check back later!

## Advanced -> Expert

<!-- TODO -->

TBD; check back later!
